Data transfer docs (#19)
ubccr/ccrdocs: pages/hpc/data-transfer.md

*from the Compute Nodes:*

* This would be for file transfers that can complete within a 72 hour window
* This will only work for outbound transfers because compute nodes are not exposed externally
* You must have an active job with an allocated compute node to get access to them

!!! Note "SSH Keys required"
    Users must use SSH keys to connect to CCR servers using SSH/SFTP/SCP.  Please [follow these instructions to upload your public SSH key](../portals/idm.md#ssh-keys) to the CCR identity management portal before attempting to connect to CCR's servers.  

The Secure Copy utility, `scp`, can send data to and fetch data
from a remote server.

In the examples here, replace `<path-to-file>` with the path of the
file you wish to copy, `<username>` with your CCR
username, and `<target-path>` with the full path to the directory you
would like to send the file to.

```bash
# Copying files from a local workstation to CCR Frontend Servers

scp -i <path-to-yourSSHKey> <path-to-file> <username>@vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu.edu:<target-path>
```

```bash
# Copying files from CCR Frontend Servers to a local workstation

> scp -i <path-to-yourSSHKey> <username>@vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu.edu:<path-to-file> <target-path>

Reviewer: If you're on a CCR login node you shouldn't need to specify vortex.  I also wouldn't assume they're using SSH keys on their local machine so to keep it really simple:
```suggestion
scp <path-to-file> <local username>@your.computer.name:<target-path>
```

``` 

!!! Note
    For any of the SSH based transfer methods, If you are running an SSH Agent locally that manages your private key you will not need to specify the key in the command line.

Windows users can access scp through PowerShell or using a GUI

> application like [WinSCP](https://winscp.net/eng/docs/protocols).

Reviewer: We have said on other pages that we recommend Git Bash but if they don't want to install anything, Powershell is good.  Maybe just add git bash here and remove WinSCP because you have FileZilla below?

between a local system and CCR resources.

```bash
sftp <username>@vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu
```

We can then use various commands to traverse and manipulate both local
and remote file systems.

Command | Function | Example
--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|----------
cd      | Changes the directory of the remote computer                       | cd remote_directory
lcd     | Changes the directory of the local computer                        | lcd local_directory
ls      | Lists the contents of the remote directory                         | ls
lls     | Lists the contents of the local directory                          | lls
pwd     | Prints working directory of the remote computer                    | pwd
lpwd    | Prints working directory of the local computer                     | lpwd
get     | Copies a file from the remote directory to the local directory     | get remote_file
put     | Copies a file from the local directory to the remote directory     | put local_file
exit    | Closes the connection to the remote computer and exits the program | exit
help    | Displays application information on using commands                 | help

> Windows users can access sftp through PowerShell or using a GUI

Reviewer: Same comment as above re: git bash and removing winscp

### Rsync

While `scp` is useful for simple file copy operations, the `rsync`
utility can be used to synchronize files and directories across two
locations. This can often lead to efficiencies in repeat-transfer
scenarios, as rsync only copies files that are different between the
source and target locations (and can even transfer partial files when
only part of a file has changed). This can be very useful in reducing
the amount of copies you may perform when synchronizing two
datasets.

!!! Warning
    You will need to set the remote shell command to ssh. The default rsh is not secure and will not work at CCR.

In the examples here, replace `<path-to-file>` with the path of the
file you wish to copy, `<username>` with your CCR
username, and `<target-path>` with the full path to the directory you
would like to send the file to.

```bash
# Synchronizing from a local workstation to CCR

rsync -e 'ssh -i <path-to-yourSSHKey>' -r <path-to-directory> <username>@vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu:<target-path> 
```

```bash
# Synchronizing from CCR to a local workstation

rsync -e 'ssh -i <path-to-yourSSHKey>' -r <username>@vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu:<path-to-directory> <target-path>

> ```

Reviewer: Same comment as above with the example of scp from CCR to local workstation

**rsync** is not available on Windows by default, but [may be installed
individually](https://www.itefix.net/cwrsync) or as part of [Windows
Subsystem for Linux
(WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

For more information on rsync [check out some of our listed
resources](#more-reading) or consult the rsync manual page.

### Filezilla

There are additional software products available for Windows, Mac, and Linux distributions
that provide secure drag and drop interfaces for file transfer such as Filezilla which can be installed from [here](http://www.buffalo.edu/ubit/service-guides/software/downloading/windows-software/managing-your-software/filezilla.html).

Once installed, follow these steps to connect to CCR resources with Filezilla:

** Adding CCR as a site: **

!!! Note "SSH Keys Required"
    You will need the SSH Key setup in FileZilla so that it does not try and use a password. CCR will only allow SSH key authentication. 

> If you are using an SSH Agent to manage you SSH Keys , Verify that your **SSH_AUTH_SOCK** environment variable has been set by the SSH Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using an SSH Agent to manage your SSH Keys, verify that your **SSH_AUTH_SOCK** environment variable has been set by the SSH Agent.
```

```bash
$ echo $SSH_AUTH_SOCK
/run/user/1000/keyring/ssh
```
Open the Filezilla Application

> *  From the File dropdown click `Site Manager...`
 
This will popup the Site Management Window

> * Click `New Site`
> * Rename the site from the default New Site to "CCR"

> * Enter the Following Settings:

      - Protocol: SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol
      - Host: vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu
      - Login Type: Normal
      - Username: your-ccr-username
      - Password: Leave Blank

> * Click `OK` to add the site.

After the Site has been added you can connect to CCR by selecting it from the Site Manager Window and clicking `Connect`

> **_If you are NOT using an SSH Agent to manage you SSH Keys:_**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_If you are NOT using an SSH Agent to manage your SSH Keys:_**
```

Open the Filezilla Application

> * From the Edit dropdown select `Settings` 
> * Go to the `SFTP` Page
> * Click `Add key file...`
> * Navigate to your CCR Private SSH Key and click `Open`

Filezilla will prompt to convert the key into a compatible format

> * Click `yes` and select a place and name for the converted key

You will now see the key in the list of SSH keys

> *  From the File dropdown click `Site Manager...`
 
This will popup the Site Management Window

> * Click `New Site`
> * Rename the site from the default New Site to "CCR"

> * Enter the Following Settings:

      - Protocol: SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol
      - Host: vortex.ccr.buffalo.edu
      - Login Type: keyfile
      - Username: your-ccr-username
      - Key file: Navigate to the Key you converted in previous steps

> * Click `OK` to add the site.

After the Site has been added you can connect to CCR by selecting it from the Site Manager Window and clicking `Connect`

### OnDemand File Manager App

> * This is browser based for simple tranfsers and not recommended for large amounts of data  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This is browser based for simple transfers and not recommended for large amounts of data  
```

> This infomation is avalable in our [Open OnDemand Documentation](../portals/ood.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information is available in our [Open OnDemand Documentation](../portals/ood.md)
```
